.TH IGEN "8" "June 2010" "kigen-0.1.1" "Funtoo Linux"
.SH NAME
igen \- a GNU/Linux initramfs generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBigen\fR \fI [options]\fR
.SH INTRODUCTION
IGen is designed to allow users to build their own initramfs
provided adequate configuration and parameters.
.PP
KIGen so far provides the following features:
  - kernel build using kgen
    - bzImage
    - modules
  - initramfs build using igen
    - kernel modules
    - busybox
    - blkid
    - LVM2
    - LUKS
.SH USAGE
It is at least required to pass a <target> parameter to run kigen.
You can add any appropriate [options] to customize its behavior.
The most commonly used syntax would be:
.PP
# igen --lvm2 --disklabel --splash
.PP
This would successively populate an initramfs.
Note that the resulting output is appended into /boot, it is up to the user
to ensure /boot is correctly mounted.
.SH ACTIONS
A target tells kigen what you want it to do - the following
actions are supported:
.PP
.I \fBinitramfs\fR
.RS
Build only the initramfs.
.RE
.I \fBkernel\fR
.RS
Build only the kernel and the modules.
.RE
.I \fBall\fR
.RS
Build all steps - kernel, modules, initramfs.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
KIGen supports the following options.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-debug
Debug.
.TP
\fB\-\-kconf=\fR</foo/bar/.config>
Provide a customized .config file for the kernel.
.TP
\fB\-\-mrproper
Clean precompiled objects and configuration.
.TP
\fB\-\-oldconfig
Will ask for new kernel options.
.TP
\fB\-\-menuconfig
Interactive kernel/initramfs options menu.
.TP
\fB\-\-allyesconfig
Say yes to all kernel/initramfs options.
.TP
\fB\-\-allnoconfig
Say no to all kernel options.
.TP
\fB\-\-luks
Include LUKS support. Append a static 'cryptsetup' binary to the initramfs.
.TP
\fB\-\-lvm2
Include LVM2 support. Append a static 'lvm' binary to the initramfs.
.TP
\fB\-\-evms
Include evms support (evms must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-dmraid
Include dmraid support.
.TP
\fB\-\-iscsi
Include iscsi support.
.TP
\fB\-\-mdadm
Include mdadm support (mdadm must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-splash
Include splash support (splashutils must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-stheme=<theme>
Splash theme.
.TP
\fB\-\-sres=INTxINT,INTxINT
Splash resolution,comma separated list of INTxINT.
.TP
\fB\-\-unionfs-fuse
Include unionfs support.
.TP
\fB\-\-aufs
Include aufs support.
.TP
\fB\-\-linuxrc=<file>
Include custom linuxrc
.TP
\fB\-\-firmware=/dir
Include custom firmware support.
.TP
\fB\-\-nocache
Do not use cached data.
.TP
\fB\-\-noboot
Do not copy kernel/initramfs to /boot.
.TP
\fB\-\-logfile=/file
Log to file.
.TP
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
erick 'r1k0' michau <erick@openchill.org>
.fi
