.TH GENKI "8" "May 2010" "genki 9999" "Funtoo Linux"
.SH NAME
genki \- a Linux kernel|initramfs generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgenki\fR \fI<option/target> [options]\fR
.SH INTRODUCTION
GenKI is designed to allow users to build their own kernel/initramfs
provided adequate configuration and parameters.
.PP
GenKI so far provides the following features:
  - kernel build
    - bzImage
    - modules
  - initramfs build
    - kernel modules
    - busybox
    - blkid
    - LVM2
    - LUKS
.SH USAGE
It is at least required to pass a <target> parameter to run genki.
You can add any appropriate [options] to customize its behavior.
The most commonly used syntax would be:
.PP
# genki all --lvm2 --disklabel --splash
.PP
This would successively prepare/compile the kernel, compile/install its modules,
and finally populate an initramfs.
Note that the resulting output is appended into /boot, it is up to the user
to ensure /boot is correctly mounted.
.SH ACTIONS
A target tells genki what you want it to do - the following
actions are supported:
.PP
.I \fBinitramfs\fR
.RS
Build only the initramfs.
.RE
.I \fBbzImage\fR
.RS
Build only the kernel.
.RE
.I \fBkernel\fR
.RS
Build only the kernel and the modules.
.RE
.I \fBmodules\fR
.RS
Build only modules.
.RE
.I \fBall\fR
.RS
Build all steps - kernel, modules, initramfs.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
GenKI supports the following options.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-debug
Debug.
.TP
\fB\-\-kconf=\fR</foo/bar/.config>
Provide a customized .config file for the kernel.
.TP
\fB\-\-mrproper
Clean precompiled objects and configuration.
.TP
\fB\-\-oldconfig
Will ask for new kernel options.
.TP
\fB\-\-menuconfig
Interactive kernel/initramfs options menu.
.TP
\fB\-\-allyesconfig
Say yes to all kernel/initramfs options.
.TP
\fB\-\-allnoconfig
Say no to all kernel options.
.TP
\fB\-\-luks
Include LUKS support. Append a static 'cryptsetup' binary to the initramfs.
.TP
\fB\-\-lvm2
Include LVM2 support. Append a static 'lvm' binary to the initramfs.
.TP
\fB\-\-evms
Include evms support (evms must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-dmraid
Include dmraid support.
.TP
\fB\-\-iscsi
Include iscsi support.
.TP
\fB\-\-mdadm
Include mdadm support (mdadm must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-splash
Include splash support (splashutils must be merged).
.TP
\fB\-\-stheme=<theme>
Splash theme.
.TP
\fB\-\-sres=INTxINT,INTxINT
Splash resolution,comma separated list of INTxINT.
.TP
\fB\-\-unionfs-fuse
Include unionfs support.
.TP
\fB\-\-aufs
Include aufs support.
.TP
\fB\-\-linuxrc=<file>
Include custom linuxrc
.TP
\fB\-\-firmware=/dir
Include custom firmware support.
.TP
\fB\-\-nocache
Do not use cached data.
.TP
\fB\-\-noboot
Do not copy kernel/initramfs to /boot.
.TP
\fB\-\-logfile=/file
Log to file.
.TP
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
erick 'r1k0' michau <erick@openchill.org>
.fi
